Boulay et al 2011 (Human Health) is based on the following publication: Boulay, A.-M.; Bulle, C.; Bayart, J.-B.; Deschenes, L.; Margni, M. Regional Characterization of Freshwater Use in LCA: Modeling Direct Impacts on Human Health Environmental Science & Technology 2011, 45, 8948-8957.
The method is an endpoint indicator expressed in DALY and is obtained by modelling each water user's loss of functionality. It addresses three different impact pathways: (1) malnutrition from water deprivation for agricultural users, (2) malnutrition from water deprivation for fisheries, and (3) water-related diseases associated with a lack of water for domestic use. The cause-effect chain modelling is based on hydrological and socio-economic data. The water scarcity index is used at the midpoint level [Boulay et al 2011 (Water Scarcity)]. The level of economic development is considered through the adaptation capacity based on gross national income. The method contains two different types of human health categories: distribution and marginal.  Distribution effects apply to all types of water consumption and refers to the impact assessment in which all users are competing and proportionally affected according to their distributional share of water use for off-stream users (here, agriculture, fisheries and domestic). Marginal effects apply to agricultural water consumption and refers to a modelling choice in which any additional water use will deprive only one off-stream user (agricultural). Note that the "HH, distribution" category includes more effects and is NOT complementary to the "HH, marginal" category.
The "HH, marginal" category is comparable with the "HH, agricultural water scarcity" category in the Motoshita et al 2010 (Human Health) method and the "Human Health" category of the Pfister et al 2009 (Eco-indicator 99) and Pfister et al 2010 (ReCiPe) methods. The regional factors are weighted averages based on the freshwater withdrawal by country data from the Pacific Institute (http://www.worldwater.org/data.html). After calculating your results, checks if any significant country-based flows have been omitted due to the incomplete list of characterisation factors. 
Other adaptation (August 2014, version 1.02): Added water flows based on new ecoinvent regions, assuming the factors are the same for the following equivalent regions: IAI Area 1 (Africa) = RAF (Africa); IAI Area 2, without Quebec (North America) = RNA (North America); IAI Area 3 (South America) = RLA (Latin America); IAI Area 4&5 without China (Asia) = RAS (Asia); IAI Area 8 (Gulf region) = SA (Saudi Arabia); UN-EUROPE = RER (Europe); UN-OCEANIA = AU (Australia).
Other adaptation (February 2014, version 1.01): Added factors for regionalized flows starting with "Water, cooling, unspecified natural origin" and "Water, turbine use, unspecified natural origin".
Method checked against SimaPro 9.0.0.30.
