A new version of BEES is currently in under development to incorporate the latest TRACI 2 plus some additional categories. For more information, please contact National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) at http://www.nist.gov/el/economics/BEESSoftware.cfm. 
BEES+ includes normalization. BEES (Building for Environmental and Economic Sustainability) is a software tool developed by the NIST (contact info: http://www.bfrl.nist.gov/oae/software/bees/). Implementation of the BEES Method (February 2008; v4.00) is based on data from BEES 4.0 Manual.pdf and equiv12.xls and discussions with Barbara Lippiatt of NIST.  Data entered by Lise Laurin of Earthshift, llaurin@earthshift.com and reviewed by Barbara Lippiatt of NIST, lippiatt@nist.gov. 
Modifications (more information see the database manual and check the link  http://www.bfrl.nist.gov/oae/software/bees/registration.html): (i) Smog characterizaion factors for two substances from equiv12.xls, i.e., biphenyl and diphenyl (both to air), have been averaged and assigned to biphenyl (air). (ii) Smog characterization factors for Butane (C4H10) and Butane-n (n-C4H10) (both to air) have been averaged and assigned to Butane (air).  
Other adaptations (November 2018, version 4.08): Factor for Methane, land transformation was added in Global warming category. 
Other adaptations (November 2016, v 4.07): Carbon dioxide, to soil or biomass stock (emission to soil) is included in Global warming due to a change in the modelling of land tenure in Ecoinvent. 
Other adaptations (April 2015, v 4.06): Added missing water flows; Set factors for saline water to zeroSet factor for rain water to zero.
Other adaptations (August 2014, v 4.05): (i) Added water flows based on new ecoinvent regions; (ii) Deleted the factor for "Water, turbine use, unspecified natural origin" without region specification in the water intake category; (iii) Adapted factors for fossil resources based on the correct upper heating values in the Natural resource depletion category; (iv) Added missing fossil resource flows in the Natural resource depletion category: Coal, bituminous, 24.8 MJ per kg; Coal, hard, 30.7 MJ per kg; Energy, from coal; Energy, from coal, brown; Energy, from gas, natural; Energy, from oil; Energy, from sulfur; Energy, unspecified; Gas, off-gas, oil production; Gas, mine, off-gas, process, coal mining/kg; Gas, mine, off-gas, process, coal mining/m3; Gas, natural/kg; Gas, petroleum, 35 MJ per m3; - Added the flow 'Transformation, to dump site, slag compartment' to the Habitat alteration category.
Other adaptions (May 2014, v 4.04): Regionalized water flows starting with "raw\Water, cooling, unspecified natural origin" and "raw\Water, turbine use, unspecified natural origin" were added to the Water intake category. 
Other adaptions (October 2013, v 4.03): (i) The original normalization factors that can be found in the Database manual, are implemented in this version; (ii) The acidification unit was changed from H+ mole equivalents to H+ millimole equivalents; (iii) Four weighting sets were added in this version, based on Gloria, Lippiatt, and Cooper, Life Cycle Impact Assessment Weights to Support Environmentally Preferable Purchasing in the United States, Environ. Sci. Technol., 2007, 41 (21), pp 7551–7557; (iv) The unit for Indoor air quality was changed from kg TVOC eq to g TVOC eq; (v)  Added Phosphorus, total to the impact category Eutrophication; (vi) Added normalization as described in the report and weighting as described in the paper "Life Cycle Impact Assessment Weights to Support Environmentally Preferable Purchasing in the United States" by T.P. Gloria, B.C. Lippiatt and J. Cooper in Env. Sci. & Technol; (vii) Characterisation factor for fosphate was corrected; (viii) Water intake flow list extended. 
Other adaptations (November 2009, v 4.02): (i) The use of biogenic CO2 has been revised: - 'carbon dioxide, in air' in global warming has been removed; (ii) 'carbon dioxide, biogenic' in global warming has been removed; (iii) The characterization value of 'Methane, biogenic' in Global warming was changed from 23 to 20. 
Other adaptations (April 2008, v4.01): (i) The impact category 'Global warming' is adapted, i.e., the substance 'carbon dioxide, land transformation' is added, with the same characterisation factor of 'carbon dioxide'; (ii) One extra substance flow "Water, turbine use, unspecified natural origin" is added to the impact category 'water intake"; (iii) For some impact categories the units were adapted (ex. HH cancer: 'C7H7 eq' is changed to 'g C6H6 eq'; for global warming the unit 'CO2 eq' is changed into 'g CO2 eq').
Method checked against SimaPro 9.0.0.30.
